# Hiring Flow

1. Open position
2. First contact with the candidate
3. General Interview
   3.1 Prescreening tests
4. Technical Interview
    4.1 Project / Customer Interview
    4.2 Manager
    4.3 Offer interview
5. Joining



# Technical interview 

Preparation > Interview > Feedback. 

### Preparation 

Check all necessary information in:

* CV's; highlighting important information, inconsistencies, and other details that should be checked during the interview.
* Job description (JD)
* Technical interview feedback template


* Map the Global Competency Framework(GCF) and prepare the list of questions for each skill that should be checked during the interview ( Check feedback template)


###  Interview

- Turn on camera and audio, introduce yourself and try to create a friendly atmosphere. 
- Warn about the fact that the call will be recorded for internal purposes only ( Request review of feedback and acquisition ), and confirm if they accept this?
- Explian the interview flow (agenda)

### Candidate expertise and matureness 

1) Ask about candidate's current and most relevant projects: 
   - Domains and purposes 
   - Proceses and the team structures
   - SDLC and customer communications flow
   - Candidate responsibilities 
  
E.g In which Software Development life cycle phases are you  involved ?
How is communication with client manage in your teams, for instance points of contacts, requirements ? 

2) Identify technologies the candidate uses and would like to use ( Ambitions and desired role).

### Techinical background & soft skills check

* Customize the questions that will help to discover the depth of the candidate's knowledge.

* Thoroughly check high-priority skills.

* Give practical tasks related to high-priority skills. ( Red flag is surpass 20 minutes)

### Q&A

Remember, as a technical interviewer you are supposed to be responsible for the technical interview itself. In case of any questions regarding (benefits, hiring processes, bench, salary, projects)

## Closue

Explain the next steps: 
- Results of TI are usually provided within 2 businnes days.
- In case of any questions or delays, the candidate may contact the recruiter.


Thank the candidate for taking time to attend the interview.


# Feedback

* Preliminary decision on candidate ( estimated job function level, score, EPAM fit, short comments)
* Cover all the topics in a template
* Take screenshots while describing a practical task
* Share links for suggestions.