
# Approches 

You may combine them depending on a skill priority.


| Approach                         | Purpose                                                         | Appicable                                                             |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Practical task                   | Determinie the level of certain skills                          | **Mandatory** for checking high-priotiry skills ( E.g coding skills ) |
| Questions on previous experience | Actual background and helps to set the scope  for the interview | Recommended for medium-priority skills                                |
| Theoretical questions            | Check theoretical knowledge and understanding of certain skills | Recommeded for medium or low priority skills                          |


# Questioning techniques

- Resume-based questions : Usually take place at the beginning of the interview, aiming to give the candidate an opportunity to explain their professional background in more detail details. Some common examples of such questions are : *Could you please tell me about your current work experience ? Could you please tell me more about your last project? Describe how the ____ was organized on your last proyect?* 
- Behavioral questions : Aim to check how the candidate might act in a specific situation( Stress, professional environment, and skill level). Some common examples of such questions are : Could you please give me an example of __? How do you know it is ...? What do you do when __ ? Why __ is important for __? 
- Situational questions : they ask the candidate to share the previous experience. The candidate answers to these help interviews understand the candidate's character ( problem-solving and communication). What problems did you face while ...? How did you fix them? What have you done to prevent such ... in future ? How did you implement ...?


## Additional techniques

Open questions, aims to find out key facts about the candidate. E.g Describe a situation at work where are you .... ?

Probing questions, useful in case you sense that the candidate is avoiding telling you something or lost track of why they are talking about. E.g When have you done something like this before? Why do you think that is.

Funnel questions, useful to eliminate unnecessary information going from general questions and the drill down to more specific points. E.g What problems did you face while ...? How did you fix them? 




