
# Soft skills 


## Ability to learn 
* If a candidate has been using the same technologyy task fore more than 4-5 years, ask the reason was.
* As if the candidate started to learn anything new, whose initiative it was, and what the reason was for that.

## Communication
* The candidate's articulation and representantion of the idea.
* The candidate's behavior during a call.

## Critical thinking

When a candidate describes the project:

* Ask if there are any processes that the candidate can improve. if so, ask what they can suggested or have suggested.


## Leadership

* Ask if a candidate has ever coordinated or managed people in any activity, what it was and how they did it.
* Ask if a candidate has ever suggested any improvement or changes in the processes and if they managed to put them into practice.

## Problem-solving

* Ask about the candidate's experience in solving conflicts or any problematic sitatuions.


## Realiability and teamwork

* How the candidate speak about their company, team, project, customer and so on, whether they blame them 
  without any grounded reason.
* How the candidate makes estimations and behaves if the estimations are wrong.
* How does the candidate plan to transfer their duties when changing the job; how much time it will take and why.


## Stress resitance

* Ask about an ideal or preferable project and issues the candidate would like to avoid.
* During practical task, suggest some changes to the initial task and see if the candidate can rework this.
* Check how the candidate would behave only in those stresfull situations that may arise during the work in
  the target positiom.

## Logical thinking 
* Use your own simulation to check the logical thinking skill: you can describe the latest problem you had on 
  your project which you solved using some interesting approach. 
  A candidate may have some other vision of the problem and suggest another solution.}


## Tips on how to assess them.

1. Ask candidates to list the soft shills that would be required for success.
   (If they don’t know what skills will be required, you should be deeply concerned). 
2. Ask candidates to rank their soft skills.
   (If they rank any of your essential soft skills towards the bottom of the list or do not mention them at all, you should be concerned. )
3. Give candidates problems that required soft skills


## FAQ for checking soft skills

You should understand that each candidate requires an individual approach to check soft skills.
That's why it's not recommeded to use the same questions for each candidate.


- Tell me about your professional accomplishments (some specific tasks or features) you are proud of?
- Tell me about the task/ situation that was a real challenge/ tough stuff for you/ serious professional mistake over the past 6 months?
- (for seniors and leads) Imagine you have a task from the customer and several approaches/ tools/ ways to complete it (be more specific here, in accordance with the profession of the candidate). Which tool would you choose and why? Please guide me through your reasoning.
- Tell me about a situation when you had to skip/ neglect minor rules while aiming to achieve your goal (faster).
- Tell me about a task you had to complete very quickly, yet you did not have all the information you needed.
- (for senior and leads) Please describe a situation where you demonstrated your leadership.
- Please describe a situation where you had to challenge decision of your colleague, manager or more experienced member of a team.
- Tell me about a project with an aggressive timeline.
- Tell me about the most unusual or creative idea that you’ve ever come up with.
- (for mature A2 and A3-4) Suppose you were asked to lead a team…
- What would you start with? How do you think you would handle a situation, if…
- Someone disagreed with your recommendations.
- You were asked to do something for which you didn’t have proper technical skills?
- You were trying to confirm a decision and your manager wasn’t getting back to you?
- As a Lead SE you are on a project working



# General expection from a candidate
Candidate must be Humble (have a strong work ethic), Hungry (can get the right things done even if takes more time and effort), and Smart (possess common sense about people and proven ability to work efficiently in a team and be flexible).

